---
dm: Chris
title: Day Two
system: Dungeons and Dragons 5e
game: Welcome to the Sword Coast
---

Mykiel spotted a goblin behind a thicket of trees and took a shot with his bow. We got a surprise attack on them. We easily defeated the two goblins outside.

We hear the sounds of someone/something eating down in the cave and we see a bridge. We distract two tied up wolves with 2 fresh rabbits and 2 pieces of jerky. We set off down the path leaving them happily eating. We were not as stealthy as we wanted to be.

Mykiel was in front and spotted two goblins. The ground started to crumble beneath his feet, he saved himself, but that is now impassible. We hear a loud roar past the bridge and a huge wave of water comes down the tunnel. We were all okay, but as Raynee was examining the area that we had been in two goblins approached us. We hit one of them and they retreated back down the tunnel. Erak and I held our actions. Raynee created an illusion of a pseudo wyvern and Yenna made it roar. Raynee reported that there were 5 goblins up ahead in the tunnel.

There turned out to be 5 goblins, a wolf, and a bugbear. Erak exploded the bug bear’s head. When the bugbear died the remaining 3 goblins surrendered. Gemma took care of the wolf by chopping its head clean off. Raynee discovered a key on the bugbear. We opened the chest and got 100 copper, and 19 silver each. Raynee took a small emerald frog statue with gold orbs for eyes, and Mykiel and Yenna each took a healing potion.

Raynee questioned the goblins. They were afraid and said that the bugbear was in charge. They said Gundren was dead, but his guard was still around and pointed across the bridge. Raynee sent one of the goblins outside with the wolf’s body to bury it nicely and if it warned anyone and it would end badly for them. The first was too weak and so was the second.

Mykiel set off to investigate and some of us wanted a short rest. Mykiel alerted a goblin to our presence, triggering a battle.
