---
dm: Dean
title: Day Four
system: Dungeons and Dragons 5e
game: The Lost Mine of Phandelvor
---

Sounds like the goblins may have taken Gundren to Craigmore Castle. We make plans to get the supplies to the cart and back to town. There are 5 chests to bring back to the wagon. We decide to load up the cart in the morning.

I go hunting in wolf form but don’t manage to catch anything. Bubba catches three rabbits and Nassira kills them and goes back to the camp.

Bubba hears an evil voice on the wind so he’s going to check it out.

He has alcohol in his bag that he is very pleased about. He cleans and dresses the rabbits. Nassira deals with the fire. Then they chat about adventuring and the issues in Phandalin. Cildar, Lord’s of Light have a controlling interest in the town. It used to be a Duchy of the Lords of Light until it shrunk. Rockseeker brothers found the Lost Cave of Echos.

They sent a mage to town a while back to get things in order, Larno Albrek. He was sent about 6 months ago to get things ready for the Lords of Light to come in. I tell him about the Red Bandits. Cildar doesn’t seem too fond of the town master, Harben. He also doesn’t seem to think much of elves. ????

He takes first watch and wakes me at 2:30am. When I wake up he’s making breakfast of rabbit, eggs, and tubers. He admires my saddle. Breakfast was very good. He hides a salt and pepper shaker in his boot. He carries 2 chests for 2 trips. I take one the first time then get Roach and my stuff.

7:45am
Everything is in the cart. I hear a “panicked” voice in my head. He tells me to get back to town asap and not to go that way! It’s like him, but not like him. It smells like a huge reptile or a dragon. I reassure him that we’re going back to town right away.
Roach is not built to pull a cart so it’s slow going because I’m not willing to push her hard.

11am
Roach is looking tired so I call a rest for her. I water her in a stream. I eat some jerky and hand it to him. We munch that while we wait. It takes about half an hour and then she’s ready to go. After lunch, we walk so it’s easier on Roach.

We stop at 2:30pm for Roach to rest again. I give her water from my canteen. We set off again 50 minutes later. I offer him more jerky, but he declines.

6pm
The sun is getting low and there’s a clearing we can camp at. I hear water trickling. He gives me his canteen and a pot to put water in while I water Roach. We eat stew, I don’t really like it much. Bubba comes back and eats the leftovers.

I take first watch. Nothing happens. Something happens on his watch though.
While looking for eggs for breakfast he discovered an ogre just over the ridge. He says we can fight it or lead it to town by running.

We fight it and win. There is a leather-wrapped rapier. The handle is jet black, the blade is almost radiant. It’s so shiny and bright. I let him take it. He offers me a small bundle. It’s an ornate dagger. It resizes to fit my hand because it’s too big for me. The handle is silver and wrapped in skin. It seems to absorb light. The blade is mat black and appears to absorb light. When I hold it, it shrinks to my size and stays that way. I question if he’s okay giving it to me. He feels it’s a fair trade.

He asks if I’m okay with bringing the ogre eye teeth into town for a bounty.

I let Bubba know there’s food here if he wants it. There’s no reply.

I look around and loot the body. I put the copper, silver, and electrum into a sack and on the cart.

Cildar makes breakfast and then puts the antlers in the cart. He breaks up camp and waters the horse while I’m examining my dagger. I hear a soft voice in my head that may have been “miss you”. It sounds like my voice.

7:15am
We set out for town. The sun is just cresting the horizon. We both walk beside the cart. He occasionally helps Roach as much as he can.

11:15am
We see Phandalin in the distance, about 10 minutes away.
I suggest we go to Barthen’s to drop all this off before we do anything else. We do that.
Elmer gives Celdar two bags of gold. Celdar weights them and gives me one. I got another 25 gold.
Elmer has his kids unload the cart. They each only carry one chest at a time. The cart belongs to Elmer. I ask where the best place to keep Roach is. He offers a night for free for Roach and promises great care.

Celdar carries my bag of money for me. He says he has to speak to Harben, the town master. He suggests I convert my money to something lighter at the Miner’s Exchange.

We get to the Exchange. Bubba points out that Halia may give me a better deal because Celdar is here. He lets me enter first. I shoot him a look but enter first.

She greets him happily and ignores me. He’s professional and courteous with her. When asked she says it’s going downhill, but he interrupts her to tell her about the “orc horde we defeated nearby” and says that she needs to give me a good deal on my money. I exchange 580 copper, 70 silver, and 455 gold. I keep 12 copper, 5 silver, and 12 gold. She suggests I check in at the weaponsmith for more darts. She offers me 10 50g each, 5 of 100g, or 1 of 500g. She slides me 10 rubies. Celdar examines them and suggests the sapphires instead. I have 5 sapphires. He thanks her and turns to leave. She stops him and tells him about the problems in town.

She explains that the Red Brands are terrorizing the town and that Harben is doing nothing about them. She says they hang out at the Sleeping Giant and their headquarters is at Tresendar Manor. She offers us 100g to take out Glassstaff, the leader and bring us any correspondence we find. I think she has ulterior motives for wanting the leader dead. Celdar asks why we shouldn’t just kill them all, not just the leader. She says that they should fall apart if we kill the leader. I think that sounds reasonable.

Celdar salutes and leaves. I follow. He says he’s going to see Harben and asks if I would like to come with. I go.

Harben Wester is a fat, pompous old fool. There’s a small jail in the cellar, two cells. He carries the keys. He greets Celdar like they’re long-lost friends. Celdar is monotone and polite. He asks how things are in “our” town of Phandalin. Harben says things are fine. Celdar asks about the ogre, Harben says they heard about it. Celdar is less than impressed. He asks what happened to the mage they sent to help with problems. Harben says he’s been gone for about 5 months. Celdar pointedly asks why he didn’t tell the Lords of Light. He asks what Harben has done to safeguard “our” mutual investment and interest. He says they have no resources in such a small place. Celdar asks about a town guard or militia given the strong young men here. Harben says it’s a good idea and we’ll get on it. Celdar tells him not to worry about anything, that he’ll do it. He says he needs the office space. He tells him to go home and he’ll send for him if he needs him. Celdar says he will do what needs doing and the city will pay for it.

Harben says there were some travellers on the Triboar trail that reported trouble with a band of orcs near Wyventor. We have 100g for anyone who takes care of it. Celdar says to tell him about the Red Brands. Harben says they’re just a mercenary guild. Celdar threatens him because he knows he’s lying. He tells us about Glassstaff and the Sleeping Giant. Celdar asks why Harben hasn’t done anything about it. He replies that he doesn’t have the manpower. Harben is upset but grabs his coat and leaves. Celdar gets the cell keys from him before he leaves. I wish Celdar luck and we agree to meet for dinner at sunset.

I head to the Stonehill Inn for lunch. Toblin, the owner, is there. Trilena wife, son, pip. I walk up to the bar and let him know I need a room and that Celdar will as well. He offers me the marital suite still. I say no so he offers to wait on payment as the people working for the city get free room and board. He says it’s lunchtime and my stomach growls loudly. He says lunch will be brought to my table. He then says they little white mice. I look confused. He apologizes and says lunch is coming. I ask him what it is, it’s mutton stew, bread, and cheese. It is delicious.

I sit back and relax. When I do Toblin offers his son to carry my bags. I decline so he gives me my key.

I sit and sip my mead while watching the people of the town.
